---
recording_id: wiihizNp
duration: 30m00s
created_at: 2024-11-20
updated_at: 2026-06-09

---
# Balancing PD, Assessment Discussions, and Supporting Justina

Date: 2024-11-20

## Transcript

And sometimes I'm just choosing, sometimes it's for everybody, but sometimes like if people they need to work on assessment, I just have assessment. If they need to work on pre-assessment or for example AI, yesterday there was about AI, so it depends on where they are. We're all on a different. I think you got to be careful when you're giving people too much PD. No, I'm just giving one every month, if not more. Okay, that sounds fairly balanced. Once a month, and I give them, I wrote something in my email, that they don't have to attend it, they can just enroll their name, enroll their job, and then they will have the recordings and they can watch it in their convenience. Exactly, perfect, great. So I'm not telling them to do anything extra because they don't want to. 

And just to tell you something, Liz, before she left, she told me that the only thing that she regretted, she couldn't help Justina to change. She told me that too. So she told me to work with her. We'll work with her. This is just to say, she's going to take some work. I'm being like very fair and firm. I'm saying no, you can't keep on, we don't have, I told Susie, we can have two different inquiries, we have different students, there's no problem, but everything should be documented. We share the same planet, that's how it goes. That's important. 

There's a big thing going on in primary, the G.L. assessment, before we start working on our thing, I'm sorry, and then at 25 I'll stop, in one minute, the G.L. assessment and the PASS assessment. The teachers yesterday texted me and they said, oh, the PASS can be done in different languages, so the BML, do they have to do it in English or do they have to do it in another language? So I guess what I want though is, we're going to talk about this today, this is not the spot for us to talk about that. So you can give me the update on it, which is great. They're going to bring this in the meeting and they're going to bring also something else, is that we don't have a schedule when they have to do the test, we don't have the timetable. I'm going to share it to you. 

Okay, great. I told them to look at the folder for if they need anything, everything is on the folder. I guess I'll remind them, yeah, that was not great. We were supposed to start, we were going to do it last week, but it turns out... Everybody. Oh, yeah, me too. But basically, our plan was to do the PASS one next week, and then the harder one the other week. We've been putting it off because of the Wi-Fi. Unfortunately, I got an email from Angela and she got an email from Global Educate that we got to get it done. It's a store, it's six to eight per year. 

Yeah, and I guess I could have done it earlier on my end and pushed it for it earlier, but Wi-Fi. Anyway, it is what it is. No, but they're going to be asking a lot of questions. That's fine. So basically, that's why it's on the AOB. So this is great, but they need to start doing that because so you talked about systems to stop overloading. So I said, stop, just put it on the agenda. They said, oh, we sent an email. Justina sent you an email. Charlotte sent you an email. Yeah. I don't want emails. I'm like, look at the agenda. I'll talk about it because emails are a waste of 20 people, right? It's on the agenda. Please, first, if you have a concern, put it on the CPM and we'll talk about it as a group. 

That's what I told the client today. Put it on the CPM. A systematic approach. So with us too, I guess talking about that, but yeah, I'm glad you brought it up, but no, because I want, because you like this, I know that they're going to ask you in the meeting. So at least, you know. Yeah, no, no. And if they actually check on the CPM, I put the GL on there. That's fine. I just remind people today, it's an environment. No, it's in purpose. If you just type CPM, I shared the link again today, the links out to people. If you go to your email, you'll have an email. I didn't even read it. 

Oh, no, no, I don't read my. Today I got on top of most of them. I still got a hundred emails. It's nuts. Okay. So. Okay. I found it. Yeah. Today is we will talk about the GL test. We talk about newsletters. I don't know. Yeah. And this is concerning the newsletters. That's what they said. They've been saying that a lot of they're looking at the, because they sent information every Monday. No, they send something every Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, no Monday, Wednesday and Friday to the parents. Like they write something small, like a short blurb extra and they send it to the parents. They have noticed that some parents are not reading it. 

I don't check title every day, I don't, when I get it. And they were like why are we doing it three times a week and we're doing also a newsletter if the parents are not checking this. I said because we have to showcase what we're doing in the classroom. Even if we have five people who are interested, that's really good. Slowly, slowly we can change the community. Yes, as a parent I don't check everything too. I think that, to be honest, three posts a day, a week. I said that already, it's too much. Okay, so let's do it... We can cut it down to two posts. I do it when I really need to say something very important to the parents. 

Well, it's supposed to... At least once a week, and sometimes it's twice. So what's the purpose of title? It's just to communicate with the parents instead of sending an email, honestly, sometimes. That's one thing. And I want to showcase what we're doing in class. Yeah, but isn't that the same purpose of the newsletter? Yeah. So... Yes and no. For grade five, because they're doing the portfolio, online portfolio, so they're taking pictures, they're commenting on their work, they're tagging their parents. For TOTL. On TOTL. So they're creating their own portfolio and they're communicating with their parents. TOTL is supposed to be an e-portfolio. 

So if you look in... Yes. So what is the purpose of... So we can't really spend too much time on this, though, because we have to work on that ATL project. So we can talk about newsletters. We can talk about the report card review. That's all in the meeting. Done. Okay. And one more thing. The scope and sequence is changing in February. And I have the evidence here. Because every time I say something, I'm not 100% sure. I said new subject guidance with overviews and six PYP subject continuance. Ah, I don't know. Replacing the scope and sequence. Yeah, guidance. 

Yeah, no. I actually worked on those. So I'm going to work only with the French team on the scope and sequence. And I'm going to base it on the European I found on what I have to use it. On the European French standards. I know A1, A2, blah, blah, blah. And we just try to work on the scope and sequence. But the other language, I'm going to put them on hold. And I'm going to just take the scope and sequence from the sports coordinator, because he already worked on it. Okay. That's fine. That's fine. Perfect. Okay. So for today, that's. They did something, the kids. 

No, but remember, we need to plan our information session today. That's our goal. All right. But you told me that the kids can do. I told you that the kids might do a video. Yeah, perfect, perfect. So they did something. It's not that good, but. That's fine. Okay. So we said that we would look through Total for a presentation. Yeah. Let's go to Total Learn. If not, I have, I think I have plenty, but I don't. Total Learn. And we have plenty on Total Learn. 80 Oscars. If not, I will use what? Here. Oh, so I think on the IP, there is social skills, thinking skills. 

Were you able to get that report card, by the way? For, let's see, the report card for the one girl? Oh, no. Okay, that's fine. I didn't fill out that. Do you want to speak to. Why didn't he like. To. Greg. I was just checking. And every time I go to his office, he's not there. ATL. Okay, I'll go to that. Assignment manager, calendar, total. ATL. I know that they have ATL Learn. I'm going to put ATL in Total Learn. If not, we can use any one that we have from last year. The last year, I told them to share with me what they have covered, so we don't cover the same thing over and over. 

Yeah, but so I guess the biggest part of this is letting. Okay, so what's the goal of our information session? Let's start off there. Honestly, all I care is that the parents understand that we're teaching lifelong skills to the kids, that they can be using them in their daily life, and even when they grow up in their, in any job they do, because these are, they're going to help them personally, and they're going to help them professionally, these skills. Whether in their personal life, to manage their time, to be good communicators, educators, or in their jobs. And then share with them some examples of what we're doing. 

Get some evidence from what is happening across the grade. Let the parents look at it. And maybe the parents, we can ask them, how are these skills, do you think they're beneficial? I don't know, something like that. If not, we do the traditional thing, and we do the ATL presentation. And what are the ATLs? No, no, so I agree 100%. So it's the parents to, like in other schools I worked for, we have an action wall, we have the ATL wall. And the parents, they just have to walk in, and they discover, like we've done last time. Right. Approaches to learning skills. 

I don't see anything popping up. Do you? I'm looking on, I don't have here. I can find something. If not, I did a lot of ATL skills. And maybe we can talk to them, how we teach them in class. So. I don't know what to, I'm just looking in my. That's fine. OK, so the goal is, what? I have something. Our ATL. Yeah. Uh, how we teach them. What's next? Some samples, no? Yeah. We can collect them from evidencing learning from talent, this will take time. Where we get the time, I don't know. And then. What's doing what? How they can help them at home, as parents. Done. 

That's what I want as a parent. I don't understand what are the. Well, we need to, I guess for what are they, there's the five, right? Yeah. Just five subcategories. How we can teach them. How we can teach them. How we teach them in class. Examples. How the kids use these skills in class to learn, to inquire. How the kids, they use these, because they teach, we don't teach, we inquire. How can we use these skills in our inquiries? Or how do we use these skills in our inquiries? No? Yeah, I would just say, how do we, if they say, use them. 

Yeah, the phrase in your English is better. No, no, you're right. It's in inquiry. How we teach them, how we build them, how we empower. How they use these skills to. That's fine. How they use the. I'm just going to ask if somebody has something ready to. They use these skills. How they develop. How they develop is much better. And build. Yeah. And build. OK. How we can support at home. OK. So. Well, there's lots. There's a ton of stuff out there. Yeah. But I have it. I don't have it here. Because I know that last year, we worked on this. 

Oh, did you? Yeah. And she gave me a lot of things that she's done. Some of them, they're updated. And some of them, I can. And some of them, they're good. And also, if I used to take them from Total Learn, but I don't know which, where exactly. Someone already took it out of here. ATL is playbook. This is for the kids, no? How to use a playbook. Each playbook contains a printable strategy for activity cards. 50 indicators. Let's see. So maybe we can take some ideas for the parents. Download. You're going to laugh at me, but I'm going to ask you a silly question. How can I just put like ATLs, and then I click on like maybe attachments? 

No. I did it. Oh, got it. Now I can see that Dutchman is the same. OK. To the tab. Exponent. I should have got three for that. So yeah, ICS. OK, so what we want to do, and because I was thinking about this, because my email is getting unsustainable. Yeah, and your messaging is unsustainable. This email culture is unsustainable. Yeah, but to tell you the truth because we have to back ourselves for example Malou every time she has a meeting she puts me in a copy because we need to. That's fine. 

Yeah, I need you to put something if I need to read if it's maybe I will put if it's cc'd I'm not assume I'm not gonna read it you know we can put high like just put a star for it if you need me to read it. Yeah, yeah, because if it's not what for honestly it's too much and me too like I'm reading a lot of things that I shouldn't be reading and I'm like come on oh it's killing me like no no seriously like I'm trying to do my job and you know what let's do the same thing let's work together because our essential image was to put everything in one place and we did the planner like we used to work when you were in Japan it was so easy that the planner list. 

Yeah, yeah, no I am so so okay this is this is basically the way things happen for me and my and we'll start meeting twice a week. Yeah, no emails no no no if you if you need to CC an email to follow up assume I'm not gonna read it if you couldn't CC I'm not I'll read it if I have time but assume I'm not gonna read it anything that comes onto your desk from other people say I'm sorry but we need to go through this process and and we'll put it on that planner and we will talk about it at this meeting it may be just an FYI but we'll use that planner document for us and then we can move it forward when we're talking about it so we may not even use these meeting notes if we don't want to we can keep the meeting notes you so what I've done in the past is you have your your meetings are those agenda cards I mean just move them over there's your evidence there are a lot I guess going forward what we were doing is trying to it's a huge friend well no it's a world culture it happens all the time so when I don't so you know I write write emails now I just I have a bot I showed you my bot right so I like and I send them and I edit what will I'm walking right. 

Okay so what we'll do is we use let's make a project just for you and I okay so we go to the planner it's right here if you just type in planner it should show up my day my task my plan okay so we have the do we want we have the PYP teaching here this is mess yeah we can start sticking them on here this is just you and I have it right where which we just go to planner I go sure go here okay this planner show up just type run type in Microsoft planner I'm gonna be this technology okay it doesn't know my job no yeah go ahead sorry yeah this was easy for me it's good to go up here sorry sorry it's a French keyboard if you just type in planner no use type in Microsoft Microsoft yeah Microsoft yeah no no just just type in Microsoft planner it'll make things easier so you can make it I can change the keyboard hmm it's here okay got it okay you can also put on your phone okay I'll do that I put on my end so okay yes okay got it okay I think you need to give us a workshop on how to use technology it's easier no I know but it I'm gonna have to slow as well no I need to slow down yeah and honestly we know like here in progress this is completed done done done and then we can move on so this is that's what we used to do. 

Okay, so we'll put all of these things in. These are planning the calendar. These are, we haven't talked, some of these. Agenda and video project. Who's Brendan? Brendan? Well, I put Malou in touch with my old coordinator because she needs to build the phonics program. Okay. Actually, that's done. I'm working with ISP coordinator, the one in Paris. We're friends. Are you working with... Vanessa. Yeah, that's what I thought. Someone told me it was ISP, right? ISP. Yeah, someone's like, no. No, so Walker is just the early childhood coordinator. Yeah. Okay, good. 

No, so what I told, we need to move on to the ATL, but what I told Malou is, listen, and I think I told you this before, but you need to build a phonics program. Unless you want them to use phonics, you've got to do it. That's just where we are. And so I put her in touch with my last coordinator because we built a play-based phonics program. She has to do that. She's got to build the program, and that goes with the ATL. She didn't even meet Francesca. She met her before. No, they see each other, yes, because they're old friends, but they don't... Francesca. 

Either way, I don't care. She just needs to build the program. It's her problem. I'm... So I gave... We met with Lucy yesterday. That was an interesting... Yeah. Malou is actually quite good moving her along, but that was an in-class planning. It was a good example that at some point we will have to schedule time, especially for arts, for them to meet with the homeroom teacher. That's something we need to work towards. Yeah, I'm going to find some time with Lucy. Okay, so let's... She was happy with the meeting. Yesterday. But she was so stressed that she has to do something for... Because she received an email. 

I think she doesn't understand everything. So I told her, Lucy, when you get an email, you don't have to stress and text me every night. You just have to use your online translator and translate if you don't understand everything. She was like, oh, what do I have to do? I have to do a test. What assessment do I have to do? Does he need the report card? And she stressed a lot. It's like, Lucy, calm down. Calm down. I need to have a life after school. Okay, we'll do that. She didn't seem very happy after the meeting. Because we got into a conflict about her coming to CPMs. 

And I said, I'm sorry. I do understand you want to get paid for an extra hour. But that's not what we have. This is our pay. Imagine I agreed that you would come to my... I shared this schedule with you. Same with the other... Not just her. It's all of the... I'm not just picking on one person. After her reflection, I think she's okay. I hope that she will show today. She has to. Otherwise, I'll write her up. Anybody who doesn't show today, we'll get right now. Or get a... It would be a kind warning. But... Talk to Marie. Eileen... 

Yeah, he told me yesterday on the bus. Yeah, so Marie needs to... He's going to come today. Eileen should be coming today. They've all had emails. And they haven't replied back. Lucy's been... This is it. Lucy really cares. She does. I know she does. And so I sent her a text this morning saying, Hey, this is what we need. I have to follow up because of the CSE, right? Paper trail. But saying, here's the link. You want to talk to me? Book a meeting with me. It's automatic. That way, you're not come barging in during my meetings. 

That's good. But Malou did a good job at working with her yesterday. But it's... That was the first stage. This is Malou's going to have to... Okay, so here's the communication skills overview. Approaches to learning. Read. We can use it. Just add it as a link if they want more. Yeah. Just more. Awkward turtle. No, these are for teachers. Okay. So how about we break it into a presentation just to make it easier for both of us? Yeah. Okay. So we said these are the goals. The goals are... Not even... 

There's also... Is it on the IB? IB... Can we find on the IB? Well, we won't find a presentation. We're going to have to put that together. It's easier? Quicker? Oh, yeah. So... Which one do you want to take on? Well, how about you take on... How are we using them in the classroom? Yeah. Yeah. I'll take on what are ATLs. Okay. What are... And how to study. Okay. Okay. What are... And how to support them at home. 

Okay. Do you want to create something, a shared presentation so... Yeah, I'll make a presentation. Okay. And then just put it in. Does that work for you? And if I have... If I find the things that I've done with Liz, I don't know why I can't find them last year and in my course, too. For the... Because I had to do it for my course to be a coordinator. Oh, did you? Yeah. Okay, so if you find it, great. If you don't... I had to work on the PD...P, action, what else? But I- So, FYI too, if you think that, I'm glad that you talked to me about the team and saying I need to give more evidence, because Nicole and Charlotte, sorry, Charlotte actually told me, yeah, you know what we're worried about? What you're looking for. 

So, thank you for that advice. No, it's what they tell me. I think that, it's funny, I feel like, I don't know, this weird relationship that they're having with me. Every time they talk to you, they come back to me. We discuss this and this, and I was like, do you know? I haven't been around, and I know that. I was like, do I need to know? How can I help you? No, it's in the now. It's just, you just want to vent, and they want to make sure that they understood what is expected from them. But it's okay, I feel like their kids, they go to their parents, we did this today with our teacher. 

Well, no, and so I do the same thing. I'm talking to you about my meetings, right? Yeah, but. Hi. Hi, hi. Sorry? Do you have time now, or? No, sorry, I don't. Oh, okay. I said sometimes, I have meeting, we can meet after CPM today, if that's okay. After the meetings today, I have time. Ah, okay. You mean like after school? Yeah. Okay. Or, yeah, those are the only times I have today, because right after this, I have a meeting with EMAD. 

Okay. I have, actually, 11 o'clock. Are you free at 11? I don't even know. It's okay, I'll try to find. Yeah, thanks. Okay. I got to send that link today. I don't know. I'll try to go and see her. Okay, so, ATL presentation, okay. When can we do that? Deadline is tomorrow? Yeah, we need to have it sorted out by tomorrow. Dwayne will do. I'm sure I have something. What are ATLs? I'll put the presentation together and share it. I need to admit that I'm not organized, so I don't know where I, are PDs there? 

What do I have as PDs? Okay, assessment in practice, assessment workshop, mini PD assessment, authentic assessment, action plan to implement, creating and, ATLs, developing ATLs, mini one. That's fine. Understanding the approaches of learning, but I don't know if this is for the teachers or? Well, you just have to dumb it down for parents, right? Let's see what I have. Okay, so Mona will be, okay, you're gonna answer these questions. This is really boring. That's fine. How are ATLs taught? This is for teachers. In the classroom. How they are part of the inquiry process. Who gave me this? Dwayne, how can we, Mona. 

Or we can start by the parents telling us how do they use these skills at work? So let's go, okay, yeah. So hold on, hold on. So I was gonna put that at one point. What we could do though is, to build the conversation, because some people won't have basic understanding. You could probably go like this. What are the ATLs? I'll create the presentation. You basically, how are ATLs taught in the classroom? How they are part of the inquiry process. Examples in the classroom. Then we'll do, Dwayne, we'll do, spot the ATL. So we'll put a bunch of pictures up. They have to work in groups? 

We can put them in different places in the room so they can move and see. I hope somebody puts those tomorrow. Why not? I think for tomorrow, let's just, they did, I sent out an invitation already. I'll send another one today. How about for today, we just keep a video and we'll have them work in groups? Because if we don't have time, we'll plan it out in a really, and then final will be how to support at home. We can plan easily how to support at home. We'll just, that one will be work together. Last year, because I had to do it also for my course, I had to find do like a corner for the PWhat Coordinator where we'll... 

Okay, should we have him or not? I can do for example this.

# Related notes

- [[2024-11-18 Planning for Art and Performance Classes Next Semester]]
- [[2024-11-21 Meeting with Tato and Collaborative Planning Progress]]
- [[2024-12-05 Finding Focus Trust, Coordination, and Workshop Planning]]