---
recording_id: sHxiPuPE
duration: 24m08s
created_at: 2024-12-13
updated_at: 2024-12-13

---
# Restorative Meeting Protocol and Racial Bias Concerns

Date: 2024-12-13

## Transcript

this conversation again and in that case i would like to listen to ashna's mother as well we don't put parents together that i know at this school it's pretty standard protocol i'll have to ask about that but i don't think it's going to be accepted because because now even like i'm i i put many points like racially motivated things i i can never know whether it is racially motivated unless I see her talking on that issue. So you've done restorative work? Even trust me, I have written, Ms. Kamath, I have written about you. Because since I felt that this is racially motivated, I also don't think that you as the head of safeguarding would not have any bias in favor of Ms. Trish. That would happen. On this I would give you my strong word that no. I would be very neutral. The role that I play as a head of safeguarding is a neutral role. As a global citizen, I would be looking at the situation not from the country or community that a parent comes from. That's my work to you. Thank you very much Yeah I reassured now Well no no because that was I worked with She one of the most gifted people I worked with Trust me I I a kind of person I want to put my thoughts Okay. You know, open on the table. It's always better to have everything on the table and get clarification. Absolutely. Because I'm writing something to you and not sharing with her. It means no. Okay. That's not me. So, we can have a conversation about the head, but the way you're familiar with the way restorative meetings work, because I'm not saying that I have no idea what the head will agree to, but the way restorative conversations work in these cases is not two parents meet together. There's multiple meetings where scripts are planned. You have to first talk to both parties, get all of the information. I'm sure you're aware of this, right? And then because it is going to be a tense conversation, that that conversation would take a long time to develop and then you meet together and then there's a scripted conversation on expectations and outcomes. So it's not just have a conversation with a parent type thing that would happen Okay maybe I can give you a good option Maybe you can ask Ms Trish to close that matter on the same platform where she started So she can clearly express herself if she realizes that she did a mistake. She should go to the WhatsApp group and she must say that I made a mistake. It was... and she can thank the school for making her understand the real fact. and then she should also say that okay I think we should not bring the school matters unnecessarily on this guardian platform then maybe you know all the guardian will have a clear understanding that's how the kids will also understand Sabira would get her respect back and I think everything would be normal Okay. Because I'm sure the school would... No, no, no. I think that sounds fairly responsible. I would need to have a conversation with my head of school, but also if I can take on that responsibility for that kind of restorative conversation That does sound like a good way to approach it I think that how that language looks so people don feel like they being shamed is important Let me look into that part. So I guess just for outcomes for this meeting. The language should look absolutely the same it looked at the first message. Could I ask one question? In our conversation you mentioned about this secret group that the three Indian mothers are having and they have asked their respective children not to be friends with Sabira. Currently in school, are they friends with Sabira or they have distanced themselves? No, it's Anushka who told Sabira the next day that my parents told me not to mix up with him. But are they following it or are they still friends or has there been any difference in their friendship? Yeah, there is difference. Ashna is not talking. Ashna is not talking but before this incident Ashna was talking with Sabira. Yeah. Okay. What about Anushka? Anushka is working here. She is talking. Okay. And who is the third student? Prithkalpa. And has her... I didn't know about her. Okay. Because we are not bringing this matter intentionally at home. Yes, yes. No, I just wanted to know that this discussion which happened on this WhatsApp group, which we can't really go into depth about it, but how is that impacting in school with their relation with Sabira? Because when we are talking about Sabira's well-being, that's where we as a school do require to know how is Sabira feeling is she uncomfortable when she comes in contact with these girls do these girls have a different approach before and after the incident has that you know the stabilization has moved up and down has it moving to other friends circle Same as Kamal. Sabira was like grown in a way that she really doesn't look into this kind of micro details. She has a clear distinction in her In France either I like her or I will not go around her She will not express her feeling the real feeling before anyone If she thinks that 19 other students of her class let say are not interested to talk to her she is very well trained to manage her life alone. I'm quite aware of that. She will never let the other 19 girls understand at all that she could rid their mind. She had been trained like this. I am totally confident if the whole school shows that the whole school is against Sabira, Sabira will fight and she will try her best to win over the situation. Because she likes it in that way. So she will not talk about any small details. The thing is, because of the WhatsApp group, Sabira thinks that these three girls are potentially dangerous for me. So she would do all her precautionary activities so that those three girls can never harm her. That's how she protects herself. So she herself is enough to handle this situation Trust me Even the maturity I have seen in Ashna mother I think Sabira can handle that as well quite smartly The thing is that those guardians should know that this is not the way of raising their kids. you know because of this what's up messages you can imagine how much negativity Asana developed within herself how much negativity Anushka developed when they will be moving out from this school they will be carrying forward these negativities negative psychology here the school loses its reputation the teachers loses like lose their satisfaction being a teacher so I think you know what the school really should do to look into the parenting which is which is really necessary and trust me like this is probably you know this is one of the requirements in the curriculum like pre primary education which are being taught at home The education at home the education from the society these are really important Otherwise, teachers alone, curriculum alone, school alone, cannot do anything to our future generation. So please, write a clear message from the school system regarding this code of conduct, regarding what happened, advising the guardians how you should react to the school matters, showing them the proper channel of communication, which is the homeroom teacher first, not you, not anyone else. And also showing them the proper path. You know, that once you left your kids at school, please have faith on school, that it's doing things rightly. That is very important, because if you go through the WhatsApp group messages, you'll be surprised that the school was being blamed every time. This is not the thing. We also have the responsibility. If we don't play our part, responsibly then the school can never help and never help and we cannot find all the solution at school we have to admit that as well because our kids come from different backgrounds and they bring those backgrounds to the school and school has a has to adopt to that but it's not it's it's It's not a Aladdin's genie that it will be able to solve all the problems. We also have the responsibility. So that is the thing the guardian should know. And also I think the homeroom teacher can pass a strong message to Ashna's mother that you have to stop it from where you started. Go to the WhatsApp group and report that whatever you have done, you have maybe she can say that I have reacted too early which was not right I should have rather reported back to the school I shared my concern with the school and should have waited for the school to investigate the matter and I sorry for the confusion that my messages created She should calm down Okay. Otherwise, you know, we see that there remains a potential danger for Samira. If she doesn't realize that she didn't do it right, then she'll try to somehow justify her act. her act and that is even dangerous that's human psychology okay so just to be clear for expectations after this on our end I can I'm gonna have the homeroom teachers send a very specific email to the group saying there was no adult material I've seen. This was miscommunication. Parents should follow the communication system the school has. If they had questions, instead of using social media, they should contact the homeroom teacher including the chart On my end I will talk to the school about the code of contact because I want to have a bigger message for this It is important So that probably won go out to next week The bigger message with Mrs Hollington I make sure it put into the newsletter saying okay just a reminder this is the code of conduct for this school. We're an international school with a lot of different cultures working together. We need to be internationally minded. And then just a reminder about responsible use of social media and communication system. we'll start working with the girls first. They get, collect more information on this before I'll approach any of parents because I want to talk to daughter. I want to talk to the other girls. I want to get a good understanding. We'll work together, have a conversation there. And from that, then we can talk about the next steps on the restoration and take these things. I want to have that restoration happen. So you feel comfortable too, both of you coming to school because I imagine when you come to school, it feels like you feel anxious too right yes okay so those are the processes the restoration is going to take a little more time because as you know next week we are going on break so please try to do it before the break we don want to spoil our break yeah I can work with the girls during the break The parent part will be the harder part And the thing is Saria has her birthday on 26th December I want her to have a clear a fresh start for her new... Like, she will be 11. So she should be able to enjoy it with a clear mind. So please, this is the help I'm asking from the school. Whatever you do, please do it before the 25th. I can't guarantee that I'll do my best on working with the girls. It depends on how quickly people open up. As father, I have also promised Sabira that I will not let anyone harm your reputation at school because I have seen how dedicatedly she tries to pursue her academic career. So the thing is, if you let me enter in this whole management, then, you know, that, that would unnecessarily linger this discomfort within all of us. No, I agree. And, and so part of the thing I can make sure that's part of the message is talking about how using irresponsibility, its reputation of that, but. You also have to understand that children take time to talk to and while you have one perception from your daughter, I need to get all of the different information before I can do anything. That's the responsible thing on my part I need to do. I'll leave it up to you. Okay. I don't know. It's always the rule of the game. You have to end at the same point where you started. Well, hopefully moving forward, but yes. No, you can only move forward with the right people. This is absolutely... This is a red line for me. Miss Trish? should go back to at least to that platform and submit herself that she was wrong. Otherwise, you cannot go to all the guardians and say that, Oh no, Sabira was right. Oh no, Sabira was right. If you want to help Sabira this is the only way and the easiest way You can talk to Ms Trish even this afternoon Ms Matt can go and say that whatever you have done is totally wrong And now you should go back to the WhatsApp group. Because she has brought out all the filth, like brought all the filth into the school. So it's her responsibility to clear that. And what school can do is just to remind her, this is your responsibility. So I can follow through what I said I would do, and working with the parent, I can't promise anything at this point. I need to talk to my head of school too, right? Just so you know. That's okay. That is what I'm saying, that if the school thinks that it cannot look after the Guardians Act that is impacting other kids at school, then you know, you can also not, you should not look into my act if I react to this whole situation. So we have a policy that we would follow? Yes. But you also giving the time to find out where the school This cannot be different for me Well no no no As I said if Look Mr Devan I So I do understand, the main thing you want to... I'm a political... I'm trained to solve problems, I'm trained to create problems. I understand. I'm telling you, I'm a career diplomat. So I can handle this situation in ten different ways. But I need to know that the school would have the same principle when I would take up the role of being a perpetrator. We do. We're systematic about approaches. Trust me, if it goes to the legal view, it would be very serious because an act of a parent impacting the psychosocial growth of a minor within the school premises, that is even worse. So I guess when you bring those things up, because you are talking law, like automatically as a professional I would need more time because then I need to consult my head of school who would consult the school lawyers just to see what we are obligated to do what is the possibility and here it is something that you know the school would only be responsible for failing to address this you know what I I should say a proper dialogue between two conflicting parties which I requested. I'm putting things on record. So now it's up to you. I'm telling I don't want her to have the same feeling on the day on her 11th birthday. I really want to help Ms. Trish, Ashna's mother, so that she doesn't do this kind of things. She understands that how these matters should be handled. Because you know, I know like after four years, I would have to deal with even serious matters with Sabira. Maybe Sabira would be watching something wrong. It can happen. But I must know how I should handle that. If I go and beat her up, like my parents used to do with me, then I will never help her. I should somehow tell her the adverse impacts of watching inappropriate content could have in your life. She should know. What I learn through mistakes, I don't want her to learn through mistakes. that's how you know I try to evaluate my level of parenting and I think miss Trish like Ashna is also my kid like my kid I know like she also has a good future but with this kind of you know education coming from her family she would only learn negative things you know after three years maybe these two kids will watch inappropriate content somewhere else No that the fact you know No there will be a part where they do do that You know, we are not sane. We all have gone through the same stage of our life. Just try to understand the problem. It's not the kids' problem. No, no, and I agree on the parent thing, but I guess where the timeline is... And no, no, seriously, because if you don't address that problem, it will come back to you even next year. Well, I'm not saying I'm not going to address the problem. I'm just saying that I'm going to... You will not have to deal with it. Well, no, no. I'll have to deal with that. I'm very close with the middle school principal. But I also need to have the time to follow our systems to find out because every school acts differently. Every country is a bit different. what I would do in Japan and what I would do in Canada. Were you in Japan? Yeah, I was in Japan before this. Okay Sabira was one In Nagoya Yeah in Nagoya Where were you Did she go to an international school there No How old was she She was just one month Okay because we were talking about the other day And so, yeah, she told me. I used to go to, like, my part-time was with GABA. I don't know. Oh, yeah, I know GABA. Okay. So I was having my master's in chemical engineering And that was the part time I used to have. Oh, wow. So you were both there together? Yeah. Did you enjoy it? Yeah. How long were you there? Two years. Okay. You know, it's a lovely place. Lovely place. It's very more, it's more systematic than here in some ways. It's quite regimented society, but you need to know the, you know, unlocking the... Well, and there's different ways, right? Yeah So I was I was I was uh very close to the Japanese mainstream society you know like uh we were 34 students in the lab I was the only foreigner So I tried to live a very good Japanese life And there are fun inside that. There is. You just have to... Yes. Keep your tatami on. They're all diplomats, right? So, I can take care of the message today. I've got to talk to my head of school about the other things on how we communicate with the parents and restoration with the parents is a priority. But letting the community also know that this is, we have to be careful, especially with reputations and thinking about the consequences when we actually post on a group ahead of time. And then I can get back to you on the restoration part with parents if that's okay. Okay? Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Kamal. Thank you. Thank you for coming and having a very open dialogue. It's very important.

## Parent note

- [[2024-12-13 School Issue Escalated by Guardian on WhatsApp Group]]