---
recording_id: dlLEscLB
duration: 20m00s
created_at: 2024-11-06
updated_at: 2024-11-15

---
# Organizational Challenges and Planning for School Programs

Date: 2024-11-06

## Transcript

No, it's not working. Are you on the internet? Have you got... It's not... I'm going to just tether with my phone, give me a second. The Wi-Fi is always a bit dodgy up here. Internet's cheap here though, at least. So there's not a lot of excuse for here. Just like under the organizational what we could do then is you could is there anything else that we need to put in there something that we can take out. I'm just waiting for the internet to log on so I can get the email. I'm going to go to bed. Okay. Okay. A lot of this was organizational structures in the school policies procedures. Okay, yeah, we still don't have all of our handbooks though, right? So that's so we can carry over to this year course needs now. We've redefined those. Um, that's an ongoing thing that's more imad anyway. All right. Um, would we want to align course needs and subjects offered in the PYP because we are looking at shifting things around, right? Well, introducing coding robotics so for the next year presumably that that will happen when he comes. So would we want to move that into grade three? I mean, is that when shaking up music? I was thinking about how we do it yesterday because we could just say no more violin right start right there just saying you teaching music that means two hours of music in primary because they've got two hours a week. Yeah, it's a start. Yeah, and we make them work together to plan those units. Yeah, and they hate each other so one of them's gonna leave. Yeah, yeah, well exactly because I was thinking that you know I've got to write them an email to say they want to we want something doing at Christmas. I was thinking actually I need to go and see them. It's a shame I can't be at the meeting tomorrow but I need to talk to Camille about it because it's normal. I mean music teachers do something at Christmas a festival of lights or something. I think that yeah, you know but it's very down the road. I think that you put the pressure on them. I'd make them do an in-class celebration where the parents, they invite parents in. Yeah. That might be better than having a big one. Yeah. Certain classes that they can do it with the older kids. But what we could do, we could do it on the Wednesday and have like a winter wonderland where we have things for the parents as well. We have like we can get the student council to sell cookies and warm wine. Yeah, maybe do something nice like that. Yeah, last Wednesday. Yeah, we should have we could have classrooms so if we could get all the teachers on board it could be celebrations of learning. Yeah, on that Wednesday and and but also have sort of a bit of a focus on music so they have to do some sort of singing in some presentation. Yeah. Violin. God. How quickly can we... We've got a bunch of violins, don't we? Is that the issue? What I want to do, and this is my proposal for Julie, is in... What I've done in other schools is in grade 5 you have one period where kids get an instrumental lesson that school pays for and you bring in instrumental teachers. Now, we could do that in grade four and five, but it would just be peripatetic teachers coming in and we would timetable music. Grade four would be, say, at two o'clock. Grade five would be at three o'clock. So the teachers would come in for two hours. The kids rent the instruments from somewhere in Paris. And, you know, it's great. You do trombone, flute, guitar, you know, and you've got the kids, you know, they're starting to build that up, and it makes a big difference. So that's something I'm going to propose for next year. I passed it past Lynn two years ago, and it was like, oh, that's far too expensive. I think there might be something now. In which case, Aline could teach violin. She could be the violin teacher so see if anyone chooses violin because even now because of the violin she splits the class when it gets to a certain size right and then the kids get half the music time right and there's nothing actually really happening and she's not. I gotta stop listening to my son because I know he's not full of truths all the time but he's she was just talking to herself complaining about us having to go to the bathroom. I'm like we talked about Maslow's hierarchy going to the bathroom as well. Yeah, it old school it old school. Oh my god what can the accounts for that so I not sure how much well yeah that just for magic school that just for paint and paper and that. Okay, so there should be Ava had told them you got 350 a year for whatever you need. I mean we give them books and things like that but if they want anything extra through magic school they take it from there. Okay, so my understanding was that that was the money that was your 350 comes through there. So it's not. So they have 350 they can spend. No one's stuck. Well, that wasn't, well, I don't know if Ava set it up like that. Maybe she did, but I mean, say to somebody, hey, sorry. I just saw your message and forgot about it. Yes. Well, I don't think she said anything. I'm like, yeah, I'm free. I thought it was a recurring invitation. Sorry, that's my fault. Sorry. Do you want some apple pie? I'm good. I was going to make us some Arabic coffee but I thought I'm 26 minutes late if I walk in with coffee what have you been doing it's okay it's okay we've been we've been talking about I thought we're just going to do the strategic plan today I'm just going to talk about that really because I think it uh where did I make a document for the strategic plan do you do you have this no you don okay I send it to you I had someone something else actually. Yeah, I just put it into Word so I send it to you. So remember last time we talked about templates, right? Yeah, I have a template, that's why I'm... Okay, so I have something I can add to your template. I didn't want to do it yet, so I made this template before, but what I think is probably use your template and use this because this has got all the standards they're dropped out. Oh nice so we can just make sure that we're hitting it so whatever these are just for the OIP or all these these are all the standards for the all the let's see if you go here watch you see that it's got everything. Yeah, you can copy this and borrow it too. Yeah, I would like to yes and so then everything's here so then you just pick because I shared with Muna what we talked about yesterday. Well, we talked about it ages ago. Yeah, the just the this I shared with her the recommendations from our authorization. Yeah, yeah so I just said that we're doing KPIs for the next three years because she's been asking me about it since we mentioned it in our coordinators. Okay listen there it is she mentioned it to me today I'm like listen we're working on it it's nothing I mean that's the thing that's what I couldn't find it. Well no I are you on my IB now so I found out what happened with my IB right Mona removed me because I guess you asked to be removed because you were on another school or something and she assumed I wanted to be removed too. I wanted to be removed from my IB. Why? Because you didn't want your name to show up or something. Why not? I don't know. So we both got removed. She removed me as well? Well, no, she just put us both back on. So because I'm like, anyway. I removed myself. Oh, did you remove yourself? Yeah, because it was deputy head. And then I reapplied the head of section. Okay, so now we're both on apparently. Anyway, so I was like, no, I never asked to be removed. I can't access any of the documents without that and I can't access the PowerPoint you sent. You can't? No, really I shared it though. Yeah, but it gives me access denied. Well, you do look a bit suspicious so this is why I guess we should build a pulled practices from the authorization report for middle year. I put IB recommendation and then I sent this to my coordinators Maryland Matt to create KPIs according to IB recommendations up until evaluation year. Okay, so this is not strategic planning this is just this is just a response to the response to the recommendations from the report that can become attached to our strategic plan exactly as part of KPIs but then the coordinators can have something that they can work on. Yeah, something that's a little bit more narrow for them. Yeah, they haven't started yet but now that Mona is on it well so let's whack a template together though that we can paste this stuff into so we'll take whatever you have from your template but this is not a strategic plan this is just an action plan in response to the other one you shared last time. Do you know what the whole school group address is if I want to email all the teachers? You can't through here I think I think it's all staff at ICS Paris but I don know if Greg has updated it. I created my own groups ICS. Yeah, on Outlook and I use that and I use yours. So you use mine? I use yours. Yeah, so mine is just a group on Outlook that I create. Because all staff has gone to, they, for some reason, it goes to Sanazar, it goes to Veronique, it goes to people that don't need to know about business. I removed all of these and I just kept the ones that are here. Yeah, exactly. So I use your two when I... He is Greg. Because the challenging individual, he doesn't really know how to do IT to support the school, right? Like, we should have those groups set up. Yeah, yeah. Similarly, we should have all the cards done by now because we've got the photos. Well, I don't have a card. I have mine. So then... And I look dazzling. There you go. Now I can't share it. What do I do? Because we've got the PowerPoint. Oh, you can't copy a link. Well, no, I shared it with you. Check, you should have it now. We'll get there in the end. Meanwhile. Okay, sorry. It's fine. I'll put it on the teams, on the NYP team. Yeah, but we all need it. No, but then if there's going to be an NYP member, they can pull it from the NYP team. In every group. Okay. No? Yeah, that works. Here we go. As a solution, I don't know. Don't get frustrated with me. I'm not getting frustrated. I'm not getting frustrated with you. I'm frustrated with the group thing because technology is just not working today. Does it work any day? Be honest. I know. I'm still thinking about Sebastian being rude to Susie. Oh, is he rude to her? So she moved, she's like, she doesn't believe in that the teacher needs a large desk. So she moved it against the wall because it was taking up learning space, right? Okay, perfect. He was not happy because he sits behind the desk to watch the kids while playing games. Yeah. Oh good. I love it. I love it. That's great. Okay, so are we on this plan? We're just going to go through our development plan which will then turn into a strategic plan. I just sent it to you as an attachment to an email. Okay, okay and it's in words so we can change it. This was put together because of things that we needed to do but there are other things that we can put in and take some take out and the idea would be if we went through this to see what else needs to go in and then put it into the new format. But we need to include those four things as well. It's first... I need to duplicate, okay. It's because it's cut out from my... Did you get it? Yeah, I did. But it's... for some reason the table is out of the page. I can't see the whole thing. Oh, that's weird. Is this how it looks on yours? It doesn't look like mine and it's cut out it's weird did you get it like this? I opened it with a bird. I've only been looking at the one column though. I put it from PDF into Word maybe if we change the page size. You changed it from PDF to Word? Yeah, so it was a good writer then we copy paste into our so I think if we go through it and highlight what we want to keep then we get rid of everything else and we copy it into the new format. There's the new format that I showed you. I don't remember where I put it. Yeah, you did which is based on IB standards and program standards and practices. Where are you how long is the strategic plan how many pages the one that you just sent us? Oh, it's been about three. It's not not very long. Do we want can you print it? I was trying but it's it won't print it says it's too wide and it says do you want to continue and I press yes and it still keeps coming back do you want to continue it's like no there's no just go away. Okay, so this is the strategic plan that I have so file save as download a copy. Okay, so I send you the PDF. Yeah, I think if you send us the PDF or if you try to print the PDF as well. Yeah, that's the one that keeps telling me no. Oh, the PDF keeps telling you no? Yeah. Maybe you'll have a bit more size. Okay, so I press do want to carry on anyway yes and it keeps coming up like that it keeps just say no no. Oh, this is word. Yeah, put it into word I'll try the pdf try the pdf itself. All right, so I've got um CPM and oh wait it's 10. Yeah, oh man I'm so out of whack today so the clock in my room. Yeah, so I was like yeah yes you thought the day was about to end. Well no so I was I was in my head I'm panicking in my head I'm like oh my god I haven't I gotta get done the CPM and prepare no it's ready to go it's Marilyn is running the second hour of my CPM doing extended essay follow up excellent. Oh, all of these specialists are supposed to be with you today by the way people's sessions.

# Related notes

- [[2024-11-06 Navigating Parent Meetings and Teacher Responsibilities]]
- [[2024-11-12 Integrating Guided Reading and Writing with Children's Books]]
- [[2024-11-11 Emergency Meetings and Unexpected Advice from Sebastian]]