---
recording_id: 1QdZAYIK
duration: 30m00s
created_at: 2024-11-19
updated_at: 2026-06-05

---
# Exploring Frameworks for Education and Accountability

Date: 2024-11-19

## Transcript

Um no I want to see because that sounds that because I think a lot of like you bring in so many teachers. The best way to have things move forward is frameworks, right? It gives frameworks but it also gives them accountability but ownership. So this was like this is like I've taken screenshots. So I took the framework of big five personality traits and then the IB learner profile. So each of them they align with the IB profile. What is this website? I'll share it with you. Oh yeah, that looks so cool. I did this one. Then the other one I did with is the OECD. So the OECD they have their attributes into each of them. They have their sub attributes and then they show how it connects. That is pretty cool. Oh, it's super cool. I mean, really, really, really cool. That alone makes the workshop worthwhile for me. So it's about good tools, right? Wait, I'll tell you which one it is. I don’t know with this new Mac OS earlier I could pin some of the website and putting into my reading list but when I updated the Mac OS now I can pin it. It's interesting some things are better some things are worse. But I did this part. I will share the list with you. I'll share the thing with you. Yeah, this is the one the Howard University explore SEL so you can explore domain wise framework wise and related skills. You will love it. I feel a blog coming on.

And then when you click say for example on frameworks right here you're comparing the frameworks. So the last that I compared was with castle. Mm-hmm. If you drop this down these are all the SEL frameworks that have been gathered by Howard education. It's interesting because we need a framework we need something all schools take it on because they like okay here the IB where that cell and what the presenter said is it not necessary you take one framework and align with IB. You can take multiple frameworks depending on your student and teacher population and then align it with the IB. So you can kind of like, you know, do your own thing, but you have these frameworks present. So I asked her about it and then she shared the complete CASEL framework because I was more interested with the CASEL framework because it showed a lot of alignment. And again, even in this, when you go to this is like you're doing the framework part, right? If you go back and you compare domains, it gives you like this for each framework. So how much percent of, say, for example, CASEL, dedicates itself in building social emotion. How much percent is cognitive? How much percent is emotion? How much percent is values? And so on. And they go all the way, I think, so till identity. Wow. Yeah. That's really powerful. And they show it for all of them.

Is it only cell frameworks? Do they have the UDL versus MD? Nothing like that they don’t have UDL in this. Okay, but I can ask the presenter because she also quite a strong believer in UDL because when I started talking to her about implicit explicit teaching in the classes she asked me if we were doing we were using the UDL framework. Okay, and then I said no not really but we are in the discussion talks of bringing that together. Right good good good that's that's really awesome I'm gonna take a look at that. Okay so let's look at our agenda so we've got inclusion diverse. Oh this is kind of connecting to actually perfect notes. So this Wednesday is there's a bit of a shuffle well AOB and then so you weren't there the report cards we're going I finished the review with report cards. It went quite well, I think. It's interesting, I gave them three choices. I'm like, okay, listen, our scope and sequences are a bit of a mess. So I'm like, we either clean up all our scope and sequences now, and we all have to put the pedal to the metal, and then we use that to inform the report cards, or we come up with, I'm a bit I want outcome-based report cards. It's clear for parents what I can do, what I'm working towards, and getting away from the narrative. No one's really using narratives very much because they've found that, okay, parents want to see, okay, in literacy, these are the skills I need to help. This is what my child's good at. This is what I need to work on.

What I've found is, and this is huge generalization right now, is narratives tend to lead to teachers, and I was there. I remember my first year of teaching. I love the narrative because I didn't really, I could fluff it up to make it look like a really nice report card, but say nothing. Yeah, yeah. So moving towards that. And then the third choice was just keep what we have and revise. And they chose, well, I don't know. We're going to make the decision today. They were leaning towards keep what we have. And that's fine. So we'll reduce the word count. Why can't they do like a short blurb about, say for example, if they are doing literacy, they would be following some kind of a curriculum for their literacy, right? So a short blurb about what they did in that specific months just a short like you know if they focused on writing and if they focus on a specific style of writing or a specific genre or whatever. You write a short blurb on that which is same for all the students and then you just write make it more personal and say this one did this did this did this. These are the areas where you want to improve rather than combining both of it or I don't know.

No, I mean, sometimes some of the don't give the messages what is supposed to be given. No, and this is, I'm going to let them, they wanted me to make the decision. I'm like, I'm not making the decision. We make it as a group decision, then accountability is the group. Yeah. I make the decision and accountability is on me. And you can, I didn't say you throw me in the bus, but you can say, oh, it was Dwayne's fault. Yeah, yeah. No, we all make the decision. So I think that went well. Today we're going to decide on what format we have. We'll move forward. In the future, though, it's going to be all outcome-based. That way it forces people to think about, okay, backwards by design. How can I teach this concept or big outcome through inquiry? And then when I do report cards it very these are the things I taught. This is how your child did. Exactly. Exactly. That makes it so clear for the parents as well. And just the whole process of writing a report card doesn't become this. Becomes tedious. Yeah, exactly.

Yeah. So going on that. So tomorrow though, the second one is I'm going to introduce, we are going to introduce the inclusion, right? Yeah. So this is what I was thinking okay sorry I'm just taking over no no that's what I wanted. I was going to say what I was actually thinking is that I would talk about what is already currently in place like you know talk about I'll make what I would do is that on the drive I will put the inclusion policy yeah and then I would put the SEN referral I would put the flowcharts of how we follow. Okay okay I'll put those on the on the drive okay and I said this is what we have currently in our school but now we want to move forward from becoming an inclusion school to becoming a school that engages in inclusive practices because they are two different things they not the same thing. So coming back now I have to find out where I put it and I've got to move the I should have worked on that document in so the like we talked about that we don't want to call it a behavior policy but it's really gonna be kind of connected to an inclusion policy right.

Okay so this is the slide so it's inclusion and inclusive practices. I think I mean what we have inclusion now okay and then how we are going to move forward as inclusive practice. So we have what inclusion means by the IB okay great we have what is happening across the world in terms of inclusion okay and there is this nice we I'll send you this so you can have a look at the video and tell me if it is in alignment to the two statements. Then I would speak about neurodiversity, which is one segment. I'd speak about equity, speak about diversity, and then speak about how it all comes together to generate belonging. Now, when we are here, I would ask the team teachers to come up with their own statement of what they think inclusion is. Yes good because we have what inclusion is stated by the IB and what's happening around the world so after they see the YouTube video they have to come up with their own statement so I'll ask them to make groups where you have the French is all divided into three groups you have all the three teachers three teachers from the EELC in different groups, TAs in different groups, and then all of the others all in different groups. So we'll basically have three groups. So they come up with their own.

Then when we talk about this. So can I go back to that one, Jim? Do you think that maybe doing two? Groups? No, no. So two of these say before they do the video. What do you think a collision is? Okay. Yeah, yeah. Have that foundation then how has your thinking changed? And then again once we do talk about neurodiversity yeah they go back on looking at their statement yes so the same follows in equity same follows when they do diversity and then what is now after they finish this what exactly do they mean with inclusion okay and then now I not sure whether I should put this behind for in the in the beginning or at the back because this is how education started many years ago then with the UN coming in place this is how it moved forward this is what people think is inclusion right now but and we are here but we want our school to move here so should I put this at the end or should I put this at the beginning because now when they talk about all this they have this visual picture to go and make final changes on their statement and then we come back here and say okay now your final statement is ready how are we going to implement it.

Okay so the implementing is so we've got the D wait do it hold on we have the I so I'm just going back to that model we don't have the J no and that's okay we could say we're talking about the J later yep and at the end of the slide if you bring something because we have the I the D the E and the B but we don’t have the J. But again once we have all this together it does lead to it does and the belonging is the J yes but some of them they don't they keep the J and the B some of them they keep only the J they keep only the B it's kind of like funny so we're going to go with the D E I J okay it doesn't matter either way because this is perfect because this sets them up for the committee yes so at the last slide after this at the very end one yeah because you've got the inclusive practice maybe have the DIJ and then we could talk about how it's going to lead to the committee okay and so committee is this whole grand thing yeah and that way that sets them up to start thinking about when we do the committee part yep okay perfect what do you think?

Yeah no that's great that's really in the limerick I put one more oh yeah over here I put what is inclusive practices as well there is this nice video about inclusive practices also this I took from the UDL course that I'm doing currently right now. Are you liking it? Oh it's really good so if we can get I mean it good in the sense is if someone has a strong foundation about teaching and learning the things that they talk in those videos and the reading that you do you will start linking you will start putting them so as a person I can put wherever I want but if it is a group doing it during our committee meetings we can talk about it in relation to our school and then start creating the framework. Exactly, exactly. It'll be interesting. It's gonna because no one's had a lot of exposure to this from my understanding. I mean people here know but it's like hitting bullet in the air it's like not a systematic approach.

Yeah so when it's not a systematic approach it's hard to have data and analyze it and to make changes where you need to make changes. So we are, we might unknowingly repeat the same mistakes that we have made in the past without a scientific, you know, explanation to it. Exactly. And it's interesting because one of the questions I've started in the past was what is differentiation? Indeed, some teachers are doing it, just putting it up front so it's explicit. Yep but again you like you know UDL mentions yes differentiation works MTSS works these work but the first approach of every teacher should be that it's for everyone it's not about focusing on one size fits all. Yes and that's why having systems like are you familiar with the workshop like writing workshop reading workshop? I've done a reading workshop and writing workshop when I was in Shanghai. So not those scripts and everything. That's nice to have, but the model's built that it's for everyone. If you do a 10-minute middle-eating lesson, kids are off. Let's just do writing. They're off doing the writing. You run the writing support. Kids are working at their own level where they are. And the power is when you're conferring with the kids doing those small things, differentiation by design.

Yeah. Obviously, there's a high level it gets deeper but if you're just running the model itself it's pretty powerful right? Yes, yes and and the UDL course not only the UDL course but also when we were leading well one of the things that they highlighted is that the students have to take the agency they have to take charge. Now how do you generate student learner agency? So they were talking about different different not examples different models of doing it where where you know you don't give the topic to the children you offer them choices and then have them lead and then how you create in pairs or in small groups how you provide feedback how the other person receives the feedback and then they were also talking about that we talk that some students are visual learners some students are auditory learners however we are then restricting them to be visual learners we are restricting them to be auditory learners.

So what schools required to do is they require to provide all types of learning and then give the agency to the child to choose which they want and give the agency to the child to also have the opportunity to learn other styles of learning rather than being fixated on one style of learning that came up but then with our children population to have children gain that skill and to perform that skill a lot depends on imitating, modeling, a lot depends on modeling. So we have to take a step back, in my opinion, take a step back and have more of like a PLC kind of opportunities within classroom so you know say for example one of the teacher wants to introduce a new writing style and she sits down she they call something as a pineapple yeah pineapple yeah so they were talking about that and it was fascinating to see because you put it outside in your door I'm going to do this this this or in your hub this is this and people who are interested in something similar they come together, they understand what the project is all about.

They can go inside the classroom to see how it is happening in action. They can provide feedback on where the improvement can be done. They can learn through modeling and then bring it back to their classroom. So when they themselves do it hands they are more in position to then trickle that skill to their own children. Yeah and so we been working with god my internet out good thing I have data on my phone. Basically no it still doesn’t work it's not connecting it's connected to the Wi-Fi there's just no internet basically no and this is so this is where I started talking with Claire is okay what are we doing for literacy and we're I think we're going to bring in no we are someone had the writing cycle which is the writer's workshop I'm going to get people to start working with that but consistently and then giving more ownership to the kids having a format right.

I think a lot of it comes down to the Cambridge way of teaching is very different. Yeah, yeah and having the courage to let go and realize that let kids make their own mistakes right. It's not easy. No, no, no, no. It's not easy. Not at all. But however, it is where you can make these changes. Because you look at your student body and you can move forward making those changes. Have it over here but I should have it because in UDL we were looking at different frameworks like frameworks in terms of reading writing and they were showing by like something from the Vermont. Yeah so this is one of their student center this it's from proficiency developing and so they talk about like presentation so they have the universe the schools in US they follow the common code right but they have one common core for the entire nation but then every state has their own own common code.

So when we were in Shanghai we used to use the New York one you're talking about the anchor standards right? Yeah so like over here it it kind of like mentions grade level wise and then it gives us like I can do this I can do this I can do this it it sounded and it gives you let me see and the proficiency and and there another one I think from Massachusetts I think so but yeah nice no the end I can present it and this is can you share this with me what I'll do is on our inclusion one which only we both are there I'll create one as like digital file and I'll dump some of the resources that would be good for the teachers to see.

There was another one like with the report cards as they're coming back there was one on this was I think so for students when they start doing a goal setting and they you have like prompts so what am I good at what am I interested what is challenge so they were the broad questions but then when they put it together in a small class size it was too broad so then they narrowed it down to individuals it was easier for the students to kind of like answer so they have like self-reflection which is one of the integral part of IB.

I so sorry to interrupt you I just got a call from my daughter school to say she sick. Okay but she 14 but they won’t let her leave unless I pick her up. Okay so can I just go, pick her up, come back again? Um, my kids have art. Oh yeah, fine. So Kate's gonna take them to art, cause she has- no sorry, my kids have music. So she's gonna take them to music on the way to art for her class. And then they go straight to lunch. Yep. And do you have my number? You can call me if things go late. Yeah, I can help you. Let me write it down. And I should be back yesterday. I'm like, let me talk to them. She can walk home. It's fine. No, I mean, we don't allow kids to go home. So how do you feel about that? Even at 14? Yeah. We don't allow our second-year. She's got cold or something. I'm very frustrated. I'm so sorry to interrupt you.

Five, nine, seven, five, six. Just give me a ring if things go sideways. But yeah, that's fine. Hopefully. I'm very sorry about that. That's fine. It's all good. Go carefully. And then there's a rubric for self-assessment as well. Nice. We should look at this for the goals because the goal setting was good I was quite surprised but it was very teacher. But that where we know we only been in a PYP school for a while and it gonna take some time for people to feel comfortable with giving ownership that why having some new people in we've been in PYP schools helped a lot right it's that that's the transition.

Okay okay so for the for the 130 to 230 that is fine. That's perfect. That's perfect. And then let me look at CPM for the future because I know the behavior manual. Because we talked about the level one, like how eventually we're going to try and get a system for people collecting what they're doing. For example, for inclusion. What are they doing to support these kids before they come to you, right? Yeah. Like that kind of tier one. Yes. I'm just wondering where we do we put that in this and do we call this our inclusion manual because and we put start putting all of these things into this manual. I think we keep them. Because I don't like the word behavior. It's not I was it's it's not really about behavior. Part of the inclusion part here is the belonging. Right. This is really about the belonging part.

I think inclusion, we keep it as inclusion because it will be just like a whole school thing. And in that, when we put ad folders, we just copy the link as like for PYP. It has that for secondary and we has it. Because what also I did was, did I do that? I think I did it. I created, this is how my OneDrive looks where I can't find any of my files. That's why I've been using Teams lately I hate OneDrive. What did I do was I'll tell you what I did I I should have it. No I did it on. So it should be here. Oh you really don't have internet? Do you have internet? My internet was working, now it's not working.

I know, every... I tell you what I did if I remember very clearly I created a folder and in that folder I created specific headings like executive functioning this this this and what does it look like in the class and then I added what can be done to support what it looks like in the class. So it's kind of like a bank where teachers can go and say okay I have this, I can probably do this into and start with the first year so kind of like bringing it into the classroom. So okay so if we start there but how do we collect the data because I like a form I just somewhere where we it's ongoing teachers have to input like really simply I think what we do is once we have finished this yesterday I mean tomorrow when we have another session we then because we probably need to give a little bit of time for the teachers to I could add slides on there and say how does inclusion look in your class.

Okay so if they put that then we ask them how they would like the data collection to be done or we can have another session based on data collection and so these are the practices which are used which one would you? Yes I am here is that you or me it me it Marilyn I guess yeah we can ask them but at the end of the day it needs to be systematic. Yes I mean we can ask their opinion but then we create our own or I can create one and keep and then give it to them and ask them where we what can what is how do we want to tweet it because I guess the goal at the end of the day this data should follow the kids throughout their time with us.

So I'm a grade four teacher I'm like okay look at little Yuki okay here I look at the spreadsheet okay, Yuki, this teacher did use some of these strategies with Yuki and it worked well. Right? It's still tier one, so it's okay to share. Here we go. Open. No, this is not the one. This is the one? No, this is not the one. This was from the... Sorry. Do we want to drip feed, though, at the end of this? Say that listen in the few because we did talk about the tiers right maybe at the end of this we talk about the tiers yes and then just say hey we are we not focusing on this right now we focusing on the tier one in the future we're going to come up with a documentation that hey when you're with a student we're going to be asking you to say what strategies are you doing and I guess being and starting now that and saying, hey, strategies usually take six to nine weeks.

Yeah. I used to think it was four to six weeks. But all the research is six to nine weeks before it'll affect. It says, like, you know, maximum three months. Yeah. So we have to be clear that you're not going to jump to tier two right away. No. Unless and until we have the right documentation. Yeah. And that would be tier one. Yeah. Well, we need the definitions of what tier two... Well, no. So tier three, everyone. Tier two is smaller groups than tier one individual. So yeah, if they have an ILP, they would be tier one. Unless it's in that specifically the strategy is group work. But I guess just be clear that, hey...

# Related notes

- [[2025-08-19 Data collection in writing and student progress]]
- [[2025-01-22 Admissions Process and BML Implementation]]
- [[2025-01-28 Discussion on Attendance and Student Support]]

## Subnotes

- [[2024-11-19 ILP Planning and Scheduling Challenges for Upcoming Meetings]]