---
recording_id: oCtZZcaz
duration: 30m03s
created_at: 2024-11-28
updated_at: 2025-08-31

---
# Dealing with Frustrations and Team Coordination Challenges

Date: 2024-11-28

## Transcript

It's not good for the school. Oh, they said that? The labor inspector told us. It's interesting, right? It's good for us. Angie was so pissed off last Tuesday. I should just vent it. I know, I know, I know. I know, I know. I was just listening. It was just a waste of my fucking time when I could have done something else. Well, this is it. I know, I know. So, it's not yet over, but, um, and so, in fact, Angie said, "Don't worry, I'm not going to do anything about Lucy anymore. She's really a bitch." And, and, Angie only talks like that if she's really, really fed up. She's not a, use the fuck me and fuck off thing. No, she's not that person. So, she wants to give up on Lucy, or what, do you think? No, but, um, no, I think she does. She wants, she wants to, but she was just fed up. She was just fed up Tuesday evening. Because when I spoke to her last night she was just like she come down. Well, you know because I went and talked to her today I like listen do you want me to take the throttle off? Because I pushing pretty hard right? Oh, I'm getting myself in trouble too, but anyway. But they need to get in line. Like, basically, Lucy tried to say that we were targeting her. I'm like, no. Everyone, you met with Lucy. That's part of the role. Mona's going to start meeting with Lucy because she's the coordinator you won't have to do that. The French team's meeting with Mona, the PE team's meeting with Mona, the music team, all of the music teachers eventually are going to have to start meeting with Mona. They are all paid for two collaborative meetings a week they don't do. Then yesterday I was hoping that Lucy would come but no, no. It's RCPM. She needs to be there every other week. And then she keeps complaining that she's not... You know what? We talked about you and I because we don't include her. And I just... Well, she's got the schedule. Every time she doesn't go. Anyway, that's part of the plan. Okay, enough of the whinging. Let's talk about the TA plan. So sorry that you met me last minute I was pretty sick. I try not to do that ahead of time. We try and plan those things out. What we need to do when we set out the plan is, well, you have to explain to Akshita when you do... Because she questioned me. "Are you now in charge of the TA?" I did. I said, "You are in charge of the TA." Well, you have to clarify that with Akshita. I did. Ah, because in front of Angie, right? This is the power struggle. I said, "Akshita, I am just instructed to do it. If you have any questions, here's the head of school and please contact Duane." No, you have been hired to support the teachers through teaching the DTAs. They directly... I didn't take it personally. Honestly, because at the end of the day, I didn't ask for that position, right? And I'm happy to do it because it's not because I want more responsibility if there's something that can if I can do something that can help the teaching and learning. Okay, that's that's that's that's what we should be thinking, right? If I in fact when she she took hold her self because Angie was there. When was this? Wednesday? Wednesday? Last Tuesday? Tuesday. Because I had a conversation. No, but I had a conversation with her. Like, I said that. Oh, no, because you didn't give it to her. My goodness. That's not, I told her it's not her job. You lost your power. On Friday, I told her last, it's not her job. So if it's special needs, that's her job. Correct. You're basically, because we're adding Kieran Mai to grade one, she would regularly know because she's not in the ELC, but you're supporting a support plan for all the TAs. And we're not going to have Kieran Mai by herself and then all the other three TAs. It's coming together, right? That's true. Yeah, but she doesn't get it. She really, really bang hard on me. And because I know, I know that she's just craving for power and this power is taken against her. I didn't take it personally. You know what I mean? I thought, yeah, whatever. I said, you know, in fact, when I wrote an email to Victoria, Duane had instructed me because it's true. I did not invent this. I have been instructed to meet with you so that you can review the roles and responsibilities and then I can leave and you can complete the template. Yeah, so what I would recommend in the future for that isn't something I do for this too is you got to make the schedule for specific times ahead of time for them and then just say here's the schedule I've created if it does not work with you. Okay, so for the Victoria one like because you said give her two weeks well we'll let's look at the cp let's make a schedule right now for the training using the cpms and then we can just shock that and then you can send that off to them saying okay here's the schedule here are the courses and I know it's a power struggle it is I don't understand why because we're just supporting each other it's not like well no we're also building a program to support the tas it's not just it's not just karen my and it's not just the whole program. Kieran came to me. She says, "Melo, I'm really scared because being a supervisor is different from being a TA now." And I'm glad that she mentioned it to me and she saw the difference which means that she understanding a difference her role right. You be paid more but there also an added responsibility. Oh, there is, there is, there is. There is a lot more. So, you know, she doesn't say that I want to go back as a supervisor. She says, "I want to take this responsibility on board, but I need your help." Yeah. And I didn't know that you were going to ask me to do this. So I just said, well, I don't know what I can do, but let me talk to Duane about it. And then the day after, you said you got the email. Yes. And the only reason I know, that was a firefighting one. I won't do that anymore. I'll make sure that we have them at these meetings, okay? Yeah, okay. Okay, so what we need, here's the secret. But I also want to tell you that if I get an email that way, I don't take it as what you're telling me what to do. I'm not that person. I know there's a reason behind it and that I know that when we meet, I can talk to you about it. I'm way, way, way behind. I mean, like when you apologize. Yeah, but I needed to. Samuel had a nice chat with me yesterday too. And he actually said no good relationship but that so after that I took a step back because I talked to a couple people and they're like I think was this person like and when I realized no I've come into the gaslighting to this thing and then I'm like okay you know what I need to take a step back so it was good for me that's why I sent that apology to you. I was in the wrong 100%. I should have done a lot more sleuthing before I did anything else. Yeah. The only reason I had... I didn't feel guilty because I knew I didn't do anything. Yeah. So I wasn't defensive or anything. I just thought I kept on reflecting like, what did I say? When did I do it? But, you know, to me, I kept on asking me because when I'm in the door, I'm really kind to the parents because I know what they go through, the traffic and everything. Like, whoa, geez, was it traffic today? Oh, there was a, like, a ramp, there was a, you know, maybe you'll have to leave earlier, you know, because la la la. So I never really, so, you know, when you send that email, I thought, and I spoke to someone, and I thought, oh, yeah, it wasn't me, you know. No, I glad you I had a yeah perfect story. You know what I mean? But I did want to officially apologize to you in an email so we have the paper trail too. Yeah, and also that was part of my purpose and also because Angie knew about it right well no I made sure I put Angie in there. Yeah, yeah, because I wanted to show her that yeah because it was it had been it was a big one we also have to talk to the person that did it. Yeah, there's a little bit more but that's why I wanted to include Angie in the email and show that yeah I made a mistake. Yeah, no but if I take it personally I'll come and speak to you. I am quite mature professionally as I think you understand noticed now. I will only I picked my battles if it's a battle that it's not going to change the teaching and learning I don't fight for it but if it's going to teach, help teach, improve teaching and learn, I will fight for it. And then if it's a relationship, I'm trusting you, I know you don't have an agenda behind your back, and also know I don't have agenda behind my back, right? Because people do that. Like Ava did that to me, and I was very naive. Eve actually did that to me and I was so naive because I'm generally a kind person but what they did to us really horrible and so yeah so you know they set me up to fail and unfortunately the CEO before Julie didn't help me because they didn't give me the 50 percent right I think the organization said you have to fail. Yeah, yeah. So anyway I just want to clear you up it's very difficult for me to take things personally. Okay, good. I've had worse things than that you know to me so okay so moving forward on these I guess the other thing too is yeah let's make this and then I want to think about yeah because I don't like the fact that you have to keep seeing Dwayne says most they should know hey this is my role and if they don't like it too bad that's the way the school rules that's what I did on the check-ins I'll tell you more about it. Yeah, okay so let get this sketch because this is the main thing that on my plate right now with CSE and all that is getting Kira in my training but also coming up with a program for everything. So I guess for two stages it would be stage one is online training right? Yeah, the TSE. We need to finish that. So can we start planning for the TA training in January? Yes, we can. But I want to just get the cure in my one done quick because this is going to blow up. I've already got the CSE on me on this. Oh, really? Okay, so we can. So there'll be online training. Those two days, we can use that for training. That's a perfect time. January 6th and 7th? At least one day we can use for training. Good. So stage, okay, stage one, online training for stage two, observation. Yeah, because Victoria wrote me about it. Yeah. I already thought about it. Maybe Kieran and I can observe in my class because my class is quite, you know, regular. In kindergarten it's a little bit tricky. I would do one observation in my class so I could settle things, build up strategies, and then move her to kindergarten. So she can see how things are handled. But I don't know if Claudine is happy because when we were talking about Manon observing homerooms they kept on criticizing Manon but they weren't willing to be observed. Manon has observed me now twice and it's all written in my collaboration notes with Manon wonderful things that she's realized that she hasn't understood but seeing it she actually gains more. Right? Oh yeah, but you cannot force people. No, you can't, right? So well then that's that's where I'm still waiting for people that be invited in, right? Okay, so it's going good. Why are you on a different? This is ours. I wrote something already. 28. Did you... Go down. Oh, yeah, I went down. It goes on the top. No, no, it goes on the top. Shake, shake, shake, shake, shake. That's fine. I can move yours to the top. Did you make one? Okay, all right. That's fine. Sorry. Okay. Yeah, no problem. I already put the things that I wanted to talk to you about. Okay. Let's put this here. I always do the top because people have rolled down then you're right. Well, no, no, some people they tend no other people do the other way. I do it at top because no but yours is logical because then you see it immediately right you don't have to scroll. Okay, ta plan. Okay, so stage one is okay so the one thing though okay when you're dealing with Helen you gotta go sit down with Helen. Uh-huh. Bring a calendar, say for next week, this is what I need, okay? This is how you gotta deal with her. She's like differentiating for children. Okay, okay. Well, no, it is, it is. Everybody's differentiating for everyone else, right? So, you gotta sit down with her. This is when, now there's hot times that she doesn't want, she won't give you anyone. Between 11 and 12, I think, that's where they all take lunch. Except when it winds, oh yeah, true. And then there's, give me a second. However, however, the supervisors, Hanan and Corina, when they see that we're really in difficulty, they go to lunch 12 to 1. You know, they're very flexible. They are, but we're planning this ahead of time. So I think go into her and say, this is our plan. We need to set something up where the idea is that, okay, we need Kiran Mai to lead the class at this time. Therefore, we need a supervisor in that class to cover for Kiran Mai. So that's how we have to organize the observations. It's going to have to be around when there's someone free. So for example, that's fine. I understand. However, the time that the TAS are free I might not be free. You know if you see my schedule I only got literally time that free is 11 to 11 for you but you don have to be there when she observing. It just her observing. Like Kiran Mai just goes in the class and watches, right? During the, like when Kiran Mai is doing an observation time. Like shadowing another, seeing another class. Yeah, yeah. Like it's not really to see the teacher. It's the shadow, the assistant. Well, the problem is I am the, with Amy that's another thing with Amy there's no differentiation that's fine the goal is to observe Ines and Marjorie okay that's it it's not the teaching it's not the teaching at all. Okay, alright, gotcha. So you don't have to lead your like okay no but the thing is if the teacher is only doing whole that's fine. That's what they're doing here too though. That's fine. The idea is... Like I work with Ines. We have differentiated. We differentiate by skill, by interest, right? Yeah, but we're not there yet. Okay. You thinking up here. Because Ines actually does group work with my kids. What Kiran my needs is to understand that you don just stand by the kids. If you see a kid about to bolt, you have to be looking around to see what's going on. So it's just shadowing. Get what you mean. Get what you mean. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So just picking time, saying, okay, go down with Helen, say, listen, I need these times. If supervisors available then swap. Yeah, just go ask her these are the best times. Okay, when can I have a supervisor? But I have to ask Victoria, right? Yes, yeah. So you no no no so you're gonna have a conversation with Victoria no problem so just go down sit down okay sit down with her and be we'll make a document because there's we're covering I guess multiple things I feel like I'm babbling I'm fine with it but it's just exhaust you're like a donkey hot everything I'm making has to be designing it so it's foolproof when that whole thing Lucy I glad I did it and sending the schedules CPM schedules it all done. They complained I like no here my paper trail Don worry about it. And then it boomerang because we didn't do it with Aileen, the music teacher. Oh, no, no, no. But the only reason that we didn't, Aileen doesn't teach music to the early childhood. Yes, kindergarten. And she doesn't do all of them. Just kindergarten. Art is the only one that does it. And where we did that was because Lucy asked for the cart. That's the only reason that we did that. Yeah, it's fine. And the only thing I asked for, if you look at the paper, what is your connection to your UI? She's the one that decided to write the units. That's right. So I actually wrote that up. I'm like, here's the guidelines. At no point does it say that. I even have a paper trail of that. I even have a... Okay, so we're going to run out of time. We've got to get this done because Victoria's struggling. And I'm trying to be... Victoria is genuinely struggling in wellness. She's not doing quite well. I don't think she's ever worked with a large class with this before. Oh, really? Yeah. Wow. So we've got to take all of that. Okay. So, so, stage one, observations, right? No wonder she growls at me often. I think she's just struggling. Yeah, stage one, online tests, I think it's TES, right? First one will be, we'll get the observations going first. Okay. Well, I guess stage one, observation. Well, actually I told them by 20th or something, they have to finish the test courses. Well, we'll give by the 20th. December. Did you give them time? No. Okay. Tests. Stage. Let's just call it stage one is observations and test training. Yeah. Okay. Stage. No, no, no, I guess. What's stage two? Well, I guess there is no stage one. And they're just, I would probably just go like, action one. Yeah, go ahead. Yes, can we have the action? Observation. Observation change together. Those are the easiest ones to do. But they also the observation and the test can go hand in hand because the observations can happen while you doing the test courses. Yes, exactly. Okay. So, then two... would be classroom support. Okay, tell me more about that. Classroom support on whole class. Because there are strategies on how you support a whole class. When the teacher's reading a book, what do you do? So the teacher doesn't get disinterrupted. If the child's not listening, you go and pat the child. You don't shout their name. You sit down beside the child exactly right you whisper you know twain come on right if the child continues to disrupt you pat the child say let's go out walk three minutes come back exactly given those strategies you know that's that's their whole their whole I had to teach this to Ines. Ines. Right. And Ines does it. In fact, she doesn do it anymore because the children are not the strategists. When they know that I reading a book because what I do Duane and I going to teach Manon this. Are you ready? I've got something here. Reading a book! So what do we do when we're reading a book? So Chris calls applesauce, eyes on the teacher. Yeah, strategies, right? You prepared in fact Manon wanted to learn more about how I handle reading with them because when she observed me for 45 minutes I did four things read a book did um uh sang did um did differentiated went back to the carpet and then split the children right so the teacher assistant doesn't sit on the table, sits beside. Now, Ines doesn't do that. It's a children. No. But so but I will when when Kiran comes, I have to tell Ines that Ines, you have to do exactly what you used to do before when the children were not listening because she will skip those steps you know what I mean yeah rolls paper. Okay, so let when can we give them to do the paper Wednesday afternoon from 1:30 to 2:30. Yeah, but we already so for next week no you can. And from 12 to 1, if you send a supervisor for lunch, and they don't have to do the lunch duties because recently they've been doing the lunch duties. You mean Kiernan? The TAs, because Helen has not been sending... But they're supposed to be doing lunch duties. The TAs? Yes. Well, before we had supervisors. It has changed now? So, pull up the calendar to be, let me pull up the calendar. No, they have to do lunch duties. For the children. Yeah, that's part of their role. Let me pull a team. Because before, they weren't because they were included in the meetings. You know what I mean? Yeah, they're not a part of the meetings anymore. Okay. That's clear now. Yeah. That's fine. I just wanted to clear that up. I'm going to find the timetable and show you. Where it's going to be. Okay. Okay, so this is what it should look like, right? Yep. 8-4, 11-45 to this, they're in, there's a, basically the TAs are here and the grade 1 TA are doing lunch. From 12-45 to 1-30, the teachers are alone. This is when there should be a supervisor ideally there should be one but because we got some runners in there there will be two supervisors in there then at this time teachers in class, the TAs come back so they're supposed to be here at this time so having a time where Victoria can sit down with her like I'm just so exhausted with it I'm tempted to jump in and open the class up and just take it because I know I could easily manage that class for an hour. True. However, as soon as I jump in to do that, well no because we some of the highest paid individuals in the school. That not our role. Yeah, we have to do it sometimes but yeah highest. Right. And just, yeah. Okay, I get what you mean. So, from Wednesday onwards, every Wednesday they're there. So, I won't expect a supervisor anymore. That's kind of... No. Okay, perfect. So, if you want to give them time, it will be from 1:30 till 2:30 on a Wednesday. Right, but the only issue is, 1:30 to 2:30 is, I'm just looking at what is today. Fourth, the 27th. The next one we have is advanced planning. And this is RTA meeting five-year plan. Well, you know what? I'm going to... Got committee meetings next week. So we can't give them that time. I'm just going to have to have a time saying fine. 1:30 to 2:30? No, everybody has to be there for the committee meeting. Oh, so the TAs? No, but so for the paperwork Victoria has to sit down with Kieran Mai. Oh, okay, well look at her look at their timetables because if you look at the timetables Victoria has four specialists we've only got two look at her timetable she's got French. She's got French. She's got music, two music. She's got... Yeah, I got it right here. Right? So we can say on Monday, French is split. Yeah. Fine. I'll go to French class with a low level kid. I don't care. Or we can ask, that's not a good time. No, you know what? No, 9:45 Monday, we'll ask for a supervisor sent to that class. It's one class, the whole class. The whole class isn't there, though. What did they do? They split. More than that doesn't work. Because Aline just wants 12 and 12, you know. These people have been so so accommodated. You know what I mean? Like go figure in our international schools if we could do that. Mm. No, I only want maximum 12. So I cannot more than 12. So... Art. Go for art. Friday. So tomorrow? Tomorrow, 12. 2, 2, 3. Friday. But does Lucy not need Kieron to help her? We'll ask for a supervisor. That would be good. You know why? Because you have every Fridays, Hanan and Corina don't go to Aqua Boulevard. So one of the two can actually support them. Hold on. There's no PE on Fridays? For the primary. It's only high school. And I don't think they want a supervisor because they can manage themselves. Helen told me if you need a supervisor on a Friday, it's much better to look for. Okay, that's great. Paperwork, okay, so give them this time. Okay, after that, there we go, okay, so the next time, is okay then.

# Related notes

- [[2025-01-20 Planning Meeting Logistics and Task Organization]]
- [[2025-08-25 Launching writing routines and schedules]]
- [[2024-12-16 Kindergarten Learning Outcomes and Journal Writing Challenges]]