---
recording_id: 3oA43HVb
duration: 17m34s
created_at: 2024-12-03
updated_at: 2025-08-25

---
# Discussion on Equity, Diversity, and Inclusive Practices

Date: 2024-12-03

## Transcript

You know, they asked what exactly is acquired and then we were like, you know, it is on these lines. So it was a good form of discussion. And then we went through equity, we went through diversity, and then they had to keep changing their statements as well. And then we spoke about inclusive practices, how it looks. And they seem to be very involved in the last YouTube video which was by the British Council which talks about what an inclusive classroom looks like. So that was kind of like, you know, and that's when they further modified their statement. So towards the end, I asked them to put like their final statement and to give um, their feedback as to what are the two things they would like the school to improve. So they have all of that in an email. So might be, you know, we might have like one particular session just to look at what the teachers think requires to be improved as we go further. 

The funny part was they were all in. We created three groups. We made sure that no same class working partners were together. What I forgot was of dividing the French teachers, which was my fault because I didn't go like, oh, you can't sit together, let's divide yourself. But anyway, they sat with Victoria and Charlotte. And they were involved, they were, you know, sharing about it. And when we came towards the end, oh yeah, when we started, I showed them the shared drive where all the documents are housed. So I had to show most of them on their laptop how to access the shared drive. And when they opened up the pre-referral, one of the staff members went like, oh, so the teachers are now supposed to do the first year thing like, you know, they have someone. So it's now the teachers' responsibility. And I said no, the first year thing is where you will receive coaching and you will receive collaboration with your principal and with the PYP coordinator. 

So then when they read it further, then the staff members, oh yeah, it is written over here. So I was like, yep, read through the whole document and then come up with your questions or if you have suggestions. And you can, you don't have to tell me now what needs to be changed or what is good and what is not. Take some period of time and go through the document very clearly and calmly because this is work in progress right now. So we want your feedback on where changes have to be made if changes have to be made. And again, it's a work in progress, so the document will keep on changing as we move from year to year. 

So that went fine and then we started with the presentation. So that was, it was quite positive, but you could see that, you know, some of them feeling okay we are doing all this but we need some things to happen immediate. So I kept on emphasizing that, you know, it's a process. So certain things will happen immediately, certain things will take time, but this is a process. This is where we are now as a school. Thanks. 

The other thing also what came up was about PD because one of the staff members said that we would like to have more PD on topics that we want to engage ourselves into, not what the school wants us to do. And I was like, yep, write it down as your next steps. Yeah, that's a tough one because the school doesn't give us a lot of money for PD. So we have to prioritize that money, right? Yeah, but then again, when it goes to budgeting, it has to be looked from a broader perspective. It has to go from like this to this, not from this to this. Exactly, exactly. 

So if some of them are enthusiastic that they want to develop a certain area of the school and they require or they may benefit, then they should be more proactive on putting forward why they want to do it and how are they going to bring what they have done on that PD into the school environment. So there has to be like a long-term thinking. They're not thinking for themselves, they're thinking them within the school environment. And hopefully the PD committee will come up with that model that, we'll wait and see, they'll need a bit of guidance. But basically, if you get PD, what does it look like? Because at the end of the day, any PD is supposed to go towards the kids. How do you ensure that the kids are being supported by that professional development? 

Exactly, exactly. And then again, okay, there's one person who goes to, does the PD. How is that one person then going to bring that learning, not completely 100 but a summary of that learning to your team members? Because in our earlier school, whenever we went for a PD, we had to come back and we had to then trickle it down to our team members. And that's kind of like, hopefully if things work out with the UTL, then that gets trickled down, right? It must get trickled down, yes. 

Yeah, I think that most of the teachers are doing a lot of the tier one stuff. They're not explicit. It's just natural. Some of them are missing spots, but it's being more explicit that saying, okay, I got a child that I doing these things already but I need to be more explicit about documenting it. Yeah, I think that when we start meeting as a team, if we start looking at it, then one of the probably, you know, the point would be on how to document. So it should go into the child's folder that these are the areas because then that should go on the report card as well saying that this child works when this, this, this is in place. 

So when the child leaves a school and goes to another school, the other school has a very clear indication of what was put in place for that particular student. I think that, I guess grade one is a good example. The teacher is overwhelmed right now and I think a lot of the good stuff's happening. It's just asking them to go back and say, hey, with Juho for example, because there are strategies you can use with him, it just they haven't been written down, right? Like in the morning, the shuttle bus driver, he drops it to my cell phone. Because even when they go to the park, Charlotte holds his hand. So once you hold his hand, he's fine. He came today and he asked me in the classroom and I was like, yes, it's your classroom time. So now you're in your classroom. And he was fine. 

But then I think there was then who cried and then Kensei had a difficult time. So Kensei was in my office to have that calm moment. He was fine when he was fine. I asked him, are you ready to go to class? He was like, yes, and he went into the class. So Kensei has like what are the things that help him to, you know, regulate himself, right? But it's already explicit because he's already got a plan. Yes, so this is, it's just a tier one. I'm not saying we have to use it, but I was like, okay, what do we, it's basically the data we gather and this is the same thing on the pre, it's exactly the same thing on the pre-SCL referral. 

So then I came up with, I printed some of these for Victoria because I'm sure she's doing it. She is doing it. It's just writing it down so she can pass it on to other teachers figuring out what are the expectations. I think in Victoria's case, the main thing is that she feels that because of certain concerns, her delivering the lesson to the other general population somewhere or the other is not smooth flowing. It's not like she's not doing it at all, but it's not smooth flowing the way she would want it to happen. 

I think there's two bits there. It's, I guess, and I'm going to sit down and listen to her sometime this week or next week. But yeah, I think that she has an internal expectation because multiple times she's come up to me and I've had parents talk to me and I'm like, well, you can pass those parents on to me and she hasn't. So I'm like, if those parents have concerns, please send them my way and I'll have a conversation with them because you are doing everything that I expect, right? And those kids are still learning and even if those kids weren't in there, kids are kids. 

Yeah, but then sometimes that would be taken as a, you know, in a roundabout of like, she's not doing her work. You know, when it's a human psychological tendency, when you're put in that situation, you can have all sorts of running wild thoughts. Oh, yeah. Even sending a parent that way would be a reflection on her at that point of time the way she would think about that's her internal stress. Yes, it's an internal thing and that takes time to, yes, it does. 

And it's interesting because like with the I, we didn't see well moments like this. I, for the exhibition, I've never seen a teacher, I've only seen one teacher take on the exhibition where they didn't internalize it this so much. They stress the hell out of themselves, right? They tend to take too much ownership and that's not easy, right? And same thing, I'm like, yeah, you are here to guide those students. Some students are going to do really well at it, some students are not, and no, they're going to do the best they can. 

Yes, yes. So I think we're moving forward anyway on this, but getting into the idea of being more, like on the pre-referral, asking teachers, hey, if you want support, please have the pre-referral done ahead of time, then we'll take a look at that. And that's a document we can all sit down, sit down with Mona, sit down and if we think that this pre needs a little more, you know, we need to expedite it a little bit, we can do that. 

Yeah, absolutely, but we can go from zero to there. Yeah, yeah, okay. So I think that's good. I think we're on the right trajectory. So what I'll do is let me show you because I'm trying to figure out how to just, it was interesting. I mean, Juho's parents replied to your email. They mentioned about contacting the psychologist, which is really very good because they were completely for it on the day we had the meeting. But they didn't reply anything about tomorrow getting, today getting the kids picked up. Like there is no commitment of saying yes, I will be there in school at one o'clock to pick him up. I'm probably gonna have to get a phone call, make a phone call just to make sure after this meeting. 

Yep, yeah, that's interesting. Yesterday he did open and he did run. Did I'm gonna, and he went straight to Maria's. He did, I saw him. Yeah, so I don't think he's bolting out the door that way. I kept looking outside the window to make sure he wasn't bolting out because if he had bolted, I would have ran behind him and asked the drivers to stop him. I think we need that button needs to be raised up because the purpose of that button is and that the reason we have the push pad too, right? 

But no, the thing is also that to get the light button raised up, it took a long time talking to Rashid. We can raise this up. We have to ask Rashid to even change the code because he knows the code now. Okay, but he will jump. Yeah, he's smart too. Like I have a hard time doing that and he's got it all figured out. Yeah, he showed me today how to do it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Sorry, I can't. He's more flexible than I am. 

But we did have a conversation. I think he's quite intelligent. I think he understands. Yeah, he understands. He might be either he's used to getting attention for negative behaviors and not attention when he does something good, like not attention for positive behavior. Parents look relatively very young. They have super young and he has a younger sister who's 15 months old. So that sister might be taking all the attention at home and they dropped him off like the first day. They just dropped him off like that. The only time I ever seen a parent just drop a kid off. I like really, you're not going to come on the first day? They came later on, that's when I met the parents actually because they came with a translator, right? 

Yeah, so both parents speak very fluent English. Okay, that's interesting because they, when I talked to them, they went through the translator the whole time. They spoke very fluent English. I mean, we didn't have to use Sofia at all. Sofia came as a Korean teacher. She came like, I think 10 minutes later, but she didn't have to contribute anything or translate anything, nothing at all. I mean, even when we said evaluation specialist, this, that, she didn't need to translate and both mom and dad speak. It's not just the father, the mother also equally speaks good English. 

Okay, she did ask, the mother asked how long would he not be allowed to go to Aqua Boulevard and we said we need space and time to make arrangements because once he is out of this campus, he's out of our. So I've been thinking a lot about these how many kids we've had not going that global of art because two, one, three until now, right? And it's because I'm talking to and right now about trying to readjust early childhood because, um, so models I've seen work for early childhood if, because it's a closed area, you have a, instead of having a standalone art teacher, standalone music teacher, you have one person because they're all supposed to be trained. 

Like if you're an early childhood teacher, you're trained in everything. Absolutely, yeah. So if you had in there, you had four teachers and that other teacher is that's the specialist teacher and they are doing music art and that allows them. And this is a model we, it's an ideal. The only issue is that we need, we want the French because I don't know where, I mean in schools that I have worked is like in early years, okay, the class size is like close to 20-25. They have one main teacher who the English teacher and they have a French, they had a Mandarin teacher. 

So the morning classes would be where the learning would happen in English and the afternoon would be where the learning would happen in Chinese. And it was both of the teachers do co-teaching together, right? So say for example, if the English teacher is good at art, then she would do art. If the Chinese teacher was good, like her domain was music, then she would do music. So if the Chinese teacher is doing music, the English teacher is supporting the class to acquire the skills of music. But, and they had, um, because they are all big schools, so they don't have like one class of nursery. They would have like four or five sections. 

So for four or five, depending on the number of classes that you have, you would have accordingly teaching assistants. So if you had four classes, you would have two teaching assistants. So it's like a ratio of one is to two more or less. So I want to clean. So the issue there is, well, obviously this is a safe place. Yeah. Ah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

# Related notes

- [[2024-11-19 ILP Planning and Scheduling Challenges for Upcoming Meetings]]
- [[2024-11-19 Exploring Frameworks for Education and Accountability]]
- [[2025-01-22 Assessment and Writing Progress Discussion]]